README.md, before:

# Local Deck WS

This repository contains alternative firmware for the [LocalDeck](https://www.mylocalbytes.com/products/localdeck) device. This firmware connects directly to Home Assistant via WebSocket API, providing a customizable and responsive interface for controlling your smart home devices.

![Normal](images/normal.png)


## Features

- Direct connection to Home Assistant over websocket
- Support for toggling `switch`,`light`,`cover` and `script` entities with a single press
- State and brightness tracking for lights
- Brightness control with special up and down buttons (lights only)
    - press this with any light to set the brightness, keep pressed to increase/decrease
![Brightness Control](images/brightness.gif)
- Child Lock Mode (Holding 0,0 + 5,0 for 1 seconds enables child lock mode (Purple LEDs), same actions for disabling (White LEDs)
    - Both buttons + time for child lock mode can be configured in config.h


- Default color and brightness settings for switches
- Visual feedback for connection status

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- PlatformIO installed
- Home Assistant instance running on your network
- LocalDeck hardware

### Configuration

1. Clone this repository
2. Copy `src/secrets.h.example` to `src/secrets.h`
3. Edit `src/secrets.h` with your Wi-Fi and Home Assistant credentials:

```cpp
#define WIFI_SSID "Your_SSID_Here"
#define WIFI_PASSWORD "Your_Password_Here"
#define HA_HOST "Your_HA_IP_Here"
#define HA_PORT 8123
#define HA_API_PASSWORD "Your_Long_Lived_Access_Token_Here"
```

4. Entity Mappings

To configure your entity mappings:

- Copy the `src/config.h.example` file to `src/config.h`.
- Edit `src/config.h` and replace the example mappings with your own Home Assistant entity mappings.
- The Up and Down buttons in the config use the coordinates 2,0 and 1,0 respectively, and may be changed in the config.h file
- Note you will need to make sure in EntityMapping you do not set an entity for the Up and Down buttons if you want to use the brightness control


### Building and Flashing

Use PlatformIO to build and flash the firmware to your LocalDeck device.

## Usage

After flashing the firmware and powering on the LocalDeck, it will attempt to connect to your Wi-Fi network and Home Assistant instance.

### Connection Status Indicators

- Blue moving light: Connecting to Wi-Fi

![WiFi Connecting](images/wificonnecting.gif)

- Green flashing: Connected to Wi-Fi

![WiFi Connected](images/wificonnected.gif)

- Cyan and Yellow alternating: Connected to Home Assistant WebSocket

![WiFi Connected](images/wsconnected.gif)


- Solid Red: Failed to connect to Wi-Fi


- Red and Orange alternating: Failed to connect to Home Assistant WebSocket

### Controlling Devices

- Short press: Toggle the entity state
- Long press: Currently logs to serial, can be customized for additional functionality

## Troubleshooting

- Make sure `ENABLE_SERIAL_LOGGING` is disabled in [common.h](common.h) if not monitoring via serial! It somehow causes the device to hang when serial buffer is not being consumed!
- If the device shows a connection failure, check your Wi-Fi credentials and Home Assistant configuration in `secrets.h`.
- Ensure your Home Assistant instance is reachable from the network the LocalDeck is connected to.
- Verify that the long-lived access token is valid and has the necessary permissions in Home Assistant.
- You will need sensor.time to be enabled in Home Assistant and set to the correct timezone for nightmode to work correctly

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

Commit message:

Media Player Support  (#6)
* Add child lock feature

* remove uneccesary comment

* Media player simpler toggle support

* volume control for media player

* Make vol adjustment smoother

* Readme cleanup

* More details ws msg logging

README.md, after:

# Local Deck WS

This repository contains alternative firmware for the [LocalDeck](https://www.mylocalbytes.com/products/localdeck) device. This firmware connects directly to Home Assistant via WebSocket API, providing a customizable and responsive interface for controlling your smart home devices.

![Normal](images/normal.png)


## Features

- Direct connection to Home Assistant over websocket
- Support for toggling `switch`,`light`,`cover` and `script` entities with a single press
- Support for calling media_player.media_play_pause service for `media_player` entities
- State and brightness tracking for lights
- Brightness/Volume control with special up and down buttons (lights / media_player)
    - press this with any light/media player to set the brightness/volume, keep pressed to increase/decrease
![Brightness Control](images/brightness.gif)
- Child Lock Mode (Holding 0,0 + 5,0 for 1 seconds enables child lock mode (Purple LEDs), same actions for disabling (White LEDs)
    - Both buttons + time for child lock mode can be configured in config.h


- Default color and brightness settings for switches
- Visual feedback for connection status

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- PlatformIO installed
- Home Assistant instance running on your network
- LocalDeck hardware

### Configuration

1. Clone this repository
2. Copy `src/secrets.h.example` to `src/secrets.h`
3. Edit `src/secrets.h` with your Wi-Fi and Home Assistant credentials:

```cpp
#define WIFI_SSID "Your_SSID_Here"
#define WIFI_PASSWORD "Your_Password_Here"
#define HA_HOST "Your_HA_IP_Here"
#define HA_PORT 8123
#define HA_API_PASSWORD "Your_Long_Lived_Access_Token_Here"
```

4. Entity Mappings

To configure your entity mappings:

- Copy the `src/config.h.example` file to `src/config.h`.
- Edit `src/config.h` and replace the example mappings with your own Home Assistant entity mappings.
- The Up and Down buttons in the config use the coordinates 2,0 and 1,0 respectively, and may be changed in the config.h file
- Note you will need to make sure in EntityMapping you do not set an entity for the Up and Down buttons if you want to use the brightness control


### Building and Flashing

Use PlatformIO to build and flash the firmware to your LocalDeck device.

## Usage

After flashing the firmware and powering on the LocalDeck, it will attempt to connect to your Wi-Fi network and Home Assistant instance.

### Connection Status Indicators

- Blue moving light: Connecting to Wi-Fi

![WiFi Connecting](images/wificonnecting.gif)

- Green flashing: Connected to Wi-Fi

![WiFi Connected](images/wificonnected.gif)

- Cyan and Yellow alternating: Connected to Home Assistant WebSocket

![WiFi Connected](images/wsconnected.gif)


- Solid Red: Failed to connect to Wi-Fi


- Red and Orange alternating: Failed to connect to Home Assistant WebSocket

### Controlling Devices

- Short press: Toggle the entity state
- Long press: Currently logs to serial, can be customized for additional functionality

## Troubleshooting

- If you added a media_player make sure to set `is_media_player` to true in the entity mappings, if you don't play/pause might not work ! 
- Spotify may not work great for volume control, I think home assistant seems to get rate limited or something so its not as reliable as it should be. Controlling the volume of your media player directly is better if possible. 
- Make sure `ENABLE_SERIAL_LOGGING` is disabled in [common.h](common.h) if not monitoring via serial! It somehow causes the device to hang when serial buffer is not being consumed!
- If the device shows a connection failure, check your Wi-Fi credentials and Home Assistant configuration in `secrets.h`.
- Ensure your Home Assistant instance is reachable from the network the LocalDeck is connected to.
- Verify that the long-lived access token is valid and has the necessary permissions in Home Assistant.
- You will need sensor.time to be enabled in Home Assistant and set to the correct timezone for nightmode to work correctly

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.
